The Project Gutenberg eBook of Robinson Crusoe, Jr
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Robinson Crusoe, Jr
        A story for little folks


Author: Oliver Optic

Release date: November 11, 2023 [eBook #72094]

Language: English

Original publication: Boston: Lee and Shepard, 1862

Credits: Aaron Adrignola, David E. Brown, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ROBINSON CRUSOE, JR ***


[Illustration: Escape of Pussy.]




[Illustration: RIVERDALE STORY BOOKS

ROBINSON CRUSOE JR.

_BOSTON, LEE & SHEPARD._]




  The Riverdale Books.

  [Illustration]

  ROBINSON CRUSOE, JR.

  A STORY FOR LITTLE FOLKS.

  BY
  OLIVER OPTIC,

  AUTHOR OF “THE BOAT CLUB,” “ALL ABOARD,” “NOW OR NEVER,” “TRY
  AGAIN,” “POOR AND PROUD,” “LITTLE BY LITTLE,” &c.

  BOSTON:
  LEE AND SHEPARD,
  (SUCCESSORS TO PHILLIPS, SAMPSON & CO.)

  1866.




  Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1862, by
  WILLIAM T. ADAMS,
  In the Clerk’s Office of the District Court of the District of
    Massachusetts.


  ELECTROTYPED AT THE
  BOSTON STEREOTYPE FOUNDRY.




ROBINSON CRUSOE, JR.

[Illustration]


I.

Robert Gray was a Riverdale boy, and a very smart one too. Very likely
most of my readers will think he was altogether too smart for his
years, when they have read the story I have to tell about him.

Robert was generally a very good boy, but, like a great many persons
who are older and ought to be wiser than he was, he would sometimes get
very queer notions into his head, which made him act very strangely.

He was born on the Fourth of July, which may be the reason why he was
so smart, though I do not think it was. He could make boxes and carts,
windmills and water-wheels, and ever so many other things.

Behind his father’s house there was a little brook, flowing into the
river. In this stream Robert had built a dam, and put up a water-wheel,
which kept turning day and night till a freshet came and swept it into
the river.

His father was a carpenter, and Robert spent a great part of his
leisure hours in the shop, inventing or constructing queer machines, of
which no one but himself knew the use; and I am not sure that he always
knew himself.

On his birthday, when Robert was eleven years old, his oldest brother,
who lived in Boston, sent him a copy of Robinson Crusoe as a birthday
present. Almost every child reads this book, and I suppose there is
not another book in the world which children like to read so well as
this.

It is the story of a man who was wrecked on an island, far away from
the main land, and on which no human being lived. The book tells how
Robinson Crusoe lived on the island, what he had to eat, and how he
obtained it; how he built a boat, and could not get it into the water,
and then built another, and did get it into the water; about his dog
and goats, his cat and his parrots, and his Man Friday.

The poor man lived alone for a long time, and most of us would think he
could not have been very happy, away from his country and friends, with
no one to speak to but his cat and goats, and his Man Friday, and none
of them could understand him.

Robert Gray didn’t think so. He read the book through in two or three
days after he received it, and thought Robinson Crusoe must have had a
nice time of it with his cat and his goats, and his Man Friday.

He was even silly enough to wish himself on a lonely island, away from
his father and mother. He thought he should be happy there in building
his house, and roaming over his island in search of food, and in
sailing on the sea, fishing, and hunting for shell fish.

Then he read the book through again, and the more he read the more he
thought Crusoe was a great man, and the more he wished to be like him,
and to live on an island far away from other people.

“Have you read Robinson Crusoe?” said Robert Gray to Frank Lee, as they
were walking home from school one day.

“Yes, three times,” replied Frank; and his eyes sparkled as he thought
of the pleasure which the book had afforded him.

“Well, I’ve read it twice, and I think it is a first-rate book.”

“So do I; and I mean to read it again some time.”

“How should you like to live like Robinson Crusoe, all alone on an
island by yourself?” asked Robert, very gravely.

“Well, I don’t know as I should like it overmuch. I should want some of
Jenny’s doughnuts and apple pies.”

“Pooh! who cares for them?” said Robert, with a sneer.

“I do, for one.”

“Well, I don’t. I would just as lief have oysters and cocoanuts, fish
and grapes, and such things.”

“Without any butter, or sugar, or molasses?”

“I could get along without them.”

“Then there would be great storms, and you would get wet and be cold.”

“I wouldn’t mind that.”

“Suppose you should be sick--have the measles, the hooping-cough, or
the scarlet fever? Who would take care of you then?”

“I would take care of myself.”

“Perhaps you could; but I think you would wish your mother was on the
island with you in that case,” said Frank, with a laugh.

“I don’t believe I should; at any rate, I should like to try it.”

“It is all very pretty to read about, but I don’t believe I should like
to try it. What would you do, Robert, when the Indians came to the
island?”

“I would do just as Robinson Crusoe did. I would shoot as many of them
as I could. I would catch one of them, and make him be my Man Friday.”

“Suppose they should happen to shoot you instead; and then broil you
for their supper? Don’t you think you would ‘make a dainty dish to set
before the king’?”

“I am certain that I could get along just as well as Robinson Crusoe
did.”

“Perhaps not; every one don’t get out of a scrape as easily as Robinson
Crusoe did. I know one thing--I shall not go on any desolate island to
live as long as I can help it.”

“I think I should have a first-rate time on one,” said Robert, as he
turned down the street which led to his father’s house.

The next week the long summer vacation began, and Robert read Robinson
Crusoe through again from beginning to end. He spent almost all his
time in thinking about the man alone on the island; and I dare say he
very often dreamed about the goats, the cat, the parrot, and Man Friday.

He used to lie for hours together under the great elm tree behind the
house fancying what a famous Crusoe he would make; and wishing he
could be cast away upon a lonely island, and there live in a cave, with
a cat and a parrot.

It was certainly very silly of him to spend the greater part of his
time in dreaming about such things, when he ought to have been thankful
for his comfortable and pleasant home, and the company of his parents,
and his brothers and sisters, and for all the good things which God had
given him.

[Illustration]


[Illustration: Off for the Island.]


II.

Robert Gray wanted to be a Robinson Crusoe, and he actually went so far
as to form a plan by which he could live on an island, sleep in a cave,
and have no companions but a dog and an old cat.

Of course he did not tell any body about this famous plan, for fear
his friends might find it out, and prevent him from becoming a Crusoe.
But he went to work, and got every thing ready as fast as he could. He
was a smart boy, as I have said before, and his plan was very well laid
for a child.

He meant to be Robinson Crusoe, Jr., but he was not quite willing to go
upon the island without any tools to work with, or any thing to eat,
after he arrived. I think, if he could, he would have made sure of most
of the comforts of life.

Mr. Gray’s shop was only a short distance from the river. The little
brook in which Robert placed his water-wheel, widened into a pretty
large stream near the shop. Here Mr. Crusoe, Jr., intended to build a
raft, which should bear him to the lonely island.

Near the middle of the great pond, which my young friends will find
described in The Young Voyagers, there was a small island, which Robert
had chosen for his future home, and where he was to be “monarch of all
he surveyed.”

After Frank Lee’s unfortunate cruise down the river, Robert had some
doubts about being able to reach the island. But these did not prevent
him from trying to carry out his plan. He might, perhaps, get wrecked,
as Joe Birch had been; but if he did, it would be so much the more like
Robinson Crusoe,--only a rock, with the water knee deep upon it, was
not a very good place to be “monarch of all he surveyed.”

Robert’s father and mother had gone to visit his uncle in the State of
New York, and were to be absent two weeks. This seemed like a good time
for his great enterprise, as his oldest sister was the only person at
home besides himself, and she was too busy to watch him very closely.

He worked away on his raft for two days before he finished it, for he
did not mean to go to sea, as he called it to himself, in such a shabby
craft as that in which Joe had been wrecked. He had tools from the
shop, a hammer, and plenty of nails, and he made the raft very strong
and safe.

It was raised above the water, so that the top was dry when he stood
upon it; and to make it more secure, he put a little fence all round
it, to prevent him from slipping off if the craft should strike upon a
rock.

Then he made two oars with which he could move and steer the raft. He
also nailed a box upon the platform, upon which he could sit. When this
queer ark was done, he pushed it out into the stream, and made a trial
trip as far as the river, and rowed it back to the place from which he
started.

From the barn he took two horse-blankets, for his bed on the island,
and placed them on the raft. He got a tin cup and a kettle from the
house, as well as several other things which he thought he might need.
A small hatchet and some nails from the shop completed his outfit. All
these articles were secured on the raft, just before dark, and the next
morning he intended to start for the island.

Robert was so tired after the hard work he had done upon the raft,
that he slept like a rock all night, and did not wake up till his
sister called him to breakfast. He had intended to start very early in
the morning, but this part of his plan had failed.

After breakfast, he took twenty cents which he had saved towards buying
a book called The Swiss Family Robinson, which Frank Lee told him was
something like Robinson Crusoe, and went to the grocery store to buy
some provisions.

He bought a sheet of gingerbread, some crackers, and a piece of cheese,
and ran across the fields with them to the brook. He was very careful
to keep away from the house, so that his sister should not see him.
Having placed these things in the box on the raft, so that they would
be safe, he went back to the house once more.

“Puss, puss, puss,” said he; and presently the old black cat came
purring and mewing up to him, and rubbing her head against his legs.

Poor pussy had not the least idea that she was destined to be the
companion of a Robinson Crusoe; so she let him take her up in his arms.
If she had only known what a scrape she was about to get into, I am
sure she would not have let Mr. Crusoe, Jr., put one of his fingers
upon her.

“Trip, Trip, Trip,--come here, Trip,” said he to the spaniel dog that
was sleeping on the door mat.

Trip had no more idea than pussy of the famous plan in which he was to
play a part; so he waked up and followed his young master. I don’t
believe Trip had any taste for Crusoe life; and he would have liked to
know where his beef and bones were to come from, for he was not very
fond of gingerbread and crackers.

If pussy didn’t “smell a rat” when they reached the raft, it was
because there was no rat for her to smell; but she showed a very proper
spirit, and, by her scratching and snarling, showed that she did not
like the idea of sailing down the river on a raft.

Robert did not heed her objections; and what do you think he did
with poor pussy? Why, he put her in the box with the crackers and
gingerbread and cheese! Trip, having a decided taste for the water, did
not object to going upon the raft. Yet, judging from the way he looked
up into his master’s face, he wondered what was “in the wind,” and what
big thing was going to be done.

“Now, Trip, we are all ready for a start,” said Robert, as he stepped
upon the raft. “You needn’t scratch and cry so, pussy. Nobody is going
to hurt you.”

Trip looked up in his face and wagged his tail, and pussy scratched
and howled, and refused to be comforted. But Trip had the advantage
of pussy very much in one respect, for, when he became sick of the
adventure, he could jump into the water and swim ashore.

Robert, however, gave little thought or heed at this moment to the
wishes or comfort of his two companions, for his mind was wholly taken
up with the preparations for the grand departure.

All was now ready; Robert pushed off the raft, and it floated slowly
down the stream.

[Illustration]


[Illustration: The Water-Wheel.]


III.

The river was broad and deep, but Robert was not afraid. He had been on
the water a great deal for a little boy, and he was sure that his raft
was strong enough to bear a pretty hard knock upon the rocks.

Poor pussy kept up a constant crying, in the box, and once in a while
she scratched, with all her might, against the sides; but she could not
get out.

Trip behaved himself much better, but he gazed up in his young master’s
face all the time, and did not know what to make of this very singular
voyage.

Robert was much pleased with his success thus far, and was satisfied
that he should make a very good Robinson Crusoe, Jr. The raft worked
quite well, and with the great oar at the stern, he could steer it as
easily as though it had been a real boat.

He had not yet reached the dangerous part of the river, which was
called the _Rapids_. This was the place where Joe Birch had been
wrecked. He had some doubts about being able to pass with safety
between the rocks, which here rose above the surface of the water.

But he was a bold, brave boy, and he was almost sure that, if any thing
happened, he could swim ashore.

As he thought of the raft being dashed to pieces against a rock, he
wondered what would become of poor pussy.

He did not want to drown her; so he decided to give her a fair chance
to save her life in case of any accident. He opened the box, and pussy
was glad enough to get out.

As she jumped from the box, Robert saw that she had made a sad mess of
the provisions he had obtained for use on the island. She had scratched
open the papers, and the gingerbread was broken into a hundred pieces.
The cheese was all mashed up and ground in with the gingerbread, and
the whole mass was well mixed with black hairs from the cat’s back.

Robert was so angry when he saw the wreck within the box, that he was
tempted to throw pussy overboard for the mischief she had done. But the
thought that it was not the cat’s fault saved her from a cold bath.

It was not of her own will that she had taken up her quarters in the
box. She did not want to go in there, or stay there after she was in;
and all the mischief had been done by her efforts to be free.

Pussy was even more astonished at the prospect around her than the dog,
and she jumped from one end of the raft to the other a dozen times,
seeking to find some way to escape. She was no sailor, on the one
hand, and did not like her position in the midst of the waters. And
she did not like the idea of wetting her soft black coat by swimming
ashore, on the other hand.

When she found there was no way to get ashore without taking to the
water, she took her stand next to Trip, and began to mew in a most
sorrowful manner. The dog looked at her, and bow-wowed two or three
times, as much as to say, “What are you afraid of, pussy? Don’t you see
I’m not scared?”

Robert went to work upon the contents of the box, to save some of his
food, if he could. The hatchet and the nails were covered with soft
cheese, and it took him some time to put things in order again.

While he was busy at the box, he did not pay much attention to the
raft, and it kept turning round and round, as it floated with the
current down the river.

While the little navigator was thus engaged, the raft bumped against
something, and Robert sprang to his feet. The whirling craft had run up
against the shore, and got aground.

This did not hurt the raft any; but pussy, who had kept both of her
sharp eyes fixed upon the land all the time, no sooner saw the vessel
touch, than she improved her chance and jumped ashore.

“Pussy, pussy, pussy,” called Robert, when he saw that one of his
companions had given him the slip.

It was of no use to call her, for she was scampering away as fast as
her nimble feet would carry her in the direction of home. She had no
idea of sharing the fortunes of Mr. Robinson Crusoe, Jr., on his lonely
island.

“That’s real mean--isn’t it, Trip?” said he, as he turned to the dog.

But it was very clear that Trip did not think it was mean, for he was
in the very act of springing ashore himself.

“Here, Trip. Come here, sir,” cried he, as he tried to get hold of the
dog’s collar.

Trip did not stop to hear any argument on the subject, but, with a long
leap, placed himself on the shore. He did not run off, as pussy had
done, but stood on the bank of the river, and barked with all his might.

The raft had now floated off a short distance, and Robert took his
oars and rowed it to the shore, for he could not think of such a thing
as losing both of his friends, and before he landed on the island.

“Come here, Trip. Poor fellow. Come here, sir,” said he, whistling, and
patting his knees, to entice the dog to him.

Pushing the raft up a little distance upon the shore, he stepped on
the beach to catch the dog. As he did so, the raft, lightened by the
removal of his weight, slid off and went to sea again “on its own hook.”

As the loss of his vessel seemed to be a greater misfortune than the
loss of the dog, he turned from the latter to recover the former.

The raft floated out about a rod from the shore, and began to go down
stream. The water was quite shallow, and Robert waded in till he got
hold of the truant craft; but in attempting to jump upon the platform,
he slipped, and went all over into the water.

His courage was good, however, and he managed to pick himself up, and
climb upon the raft. The ducking did him no harm; but the day was cool,
and his wet clothes did not add to his comfort.

Pulling to the shore again, he fastened the raft to a tree with a rope
he had brought for the purpose. Taking off all his clothes, he wrung
them as dry as he could, and put them on again.

“Now, come here, Trip,” said he to the dog, which had been watching all
his movements. “Now we will try again. You needn’t try to sneak off,
for you are going with me to the island, any how.”

After some coaxing he got near enough to Trip to seize hold of his
collar, to which he tied the rope that fastened the raft.

“I didn’t think you would be so mean as to run away and leave me, as
pussy did,” said Robert, as he dragged Trip upon the raft once more.
“But you shall go with me on the voyage, whether you like it or not.”

Having secured his prisoner, he pushed off again, and the raft floated
slowly down the river. He passed the Rapids in safety, though the raft
got two or three pretty hard knocks upon the rocks.

When he reached the pond, he had to take his oars, for the current
would not carry him to the island, where he wished to go. He had to
work very hard for as much as an hour, before he could bring the raft
to the island. But at last he reached it, and began to feel that he was
“monarch of all he surveyed.”

[Illustration]


[Illustration: Building the House.]


IV.

“Now, Trip, we have arrived at our future home. We must go to work
and put things to rights,” said Robert, as he released the dog, and
fastened the raft to a tree.

Trip wagged his tail, and jumped upon the land, as though he entered
heartily into the spirit of the adventure. But I think if Trip could
have spoken, and had had the courage to utter his whole mind, he would
have said,--

“Young master, you are a fool. What do you want to come here for, where
there isn’t any body or any thing? You were a great deal better off at
home, and I think you are a real silly fellow.”

But as Trip could not speak, he didn’t say a word; and I am afraid his
actions did not express his real feelings, for he looked happy and
contented.

Robert’s first step after he landed was to explore the island, just
as Robinson Crusoe, Senior, had done his domain. He pushed his way,
followed by Trip, through the bushes that covered the island. He
wanted to find a cave; but there was not even a rock to be found.

“Well, Trip, I don’t see what we shall do for a house,” said he, when
he returned to the landing-place. “There is, certainly, no cave here.
What shall we do, Trip?”

The dog wagged his tail, and barked, as though he understood the
question; but he did not mention any way to overcome the difficulty.
Instead of trying to help his master to a plan, he leaped upon the
raft, and seated himself on the box.

I dare say this was Trip’s notion of their next move,--that Robert
should get upon the raft, and make his way home as fast as he could.

“We won’t do any thing of the sort, Trip. Do you think I’m going home
again? No, sir. I’m Robinson Crusoe, Jr.”

“Bow, wow,” replied Trip; which, being interpreted, undoubtedly meant,
“Do come along, master. Let us go home.”

“No, you don’t,” said Robert. “Wouldn’t the fellows laugh at me if they
should find me coming back now! I’ll tell you what we’ll do, Trip. We
can take the boards in the raft and use them to build a house. That is
just the idea. We won’t stop to think about it, either, but go to work,
and do the job at once, for we want the house to sleep in to-night.”

Robert then carried the box and the various articles with which the
raft was loaded to the shore, and placed them near the spot where he
intended to build his house.

This was just the kind of work that pleased Robert, and he was as much
excited as though he were going to Europe, or to do some other great
thing. Throwing off his coat, he seized the hatchet and went to work
with a zeal that promised soon to give him a house.

The raft was torn in pieces, and the boards and timbers of which it
was made carried to the site of the new dwelling. Robert had hardly
finished this part of the job, before a thought struck him.

At the most, his stock of food would not last him more than two or
three days; and in his survey of the island he had seen neither grapes
nor berries, upon which he had expected to live when the crackers and
gingerbread were all gone.

As this thought struck him, he sat down upon the ground, and began
to look quite sad. He had destroyed the raft, which it had taken him
two days to build. He was acting like a man who locks himself into a
prison, and then throws the key out the window.

“I don’t know but we are getting into a bad scrape, Trip,” said he, as
the dog seated himself in front of him, and looked up into his face as
if to ask him what he meant to do next.

Trip wagged his tail, and did not seem to be at all concerned about the
future. No doubt he felt able to swim to the main shore.

“But I’m not going to back out now, I can tell you, Trip. I’m going to
have a time of it, any how. When I get back, if I ever do go back, I
want to tell the fellows I enjoyed it first rate, and then they can’t
laugh at me.”

It was now nearly noon, and he decided to dine before he began to work
on the house. Opening the box, he took out some crackers and cheese;
and while he ate himself, he gave Trip his full share. Robert had
worked hard, and was very hungry; and Trip, like any other dog, was
always hungry. The dinner they ate, therefore, made a large hole in the
stock of food.

After the meal, they went down to the bank to take a drink. Robert took
up a dipper of water, and tried to drink it, but it was so brackish
that a very little satisfied him.

By this time he had begun to feel some of the hardships of Crusoe
life. Crackers and cheese were not very dainty fare to a boy who had
been used to living upon beefsteak and hot biscuit; and river water was
not at all like tea and coffee, or even the water of his father’s well.

In spite of these difficulties, Robert went to work like a hero, and by
sunset, he had finished his house so far as he could, for his stock
of boards fell short when he had covered the top and one side of the
dwelling.

While he was so busy he had not kept watch of Trip, and the glutton had
gone to the box in which the gingerbread and crackers were kept, and
eaten all he could of them. What he could not eat, he had munched up,
till a decent pig would have refused to touch it.

“Trip, Trip. Come here, Trip, you rascal,” cried Robert, angry enough
to kill the dog, if he had been near.

Trip did not answer to the call; in fact, after he had eaten all he
could, he quietly slipped into the water and swam to the main shore.

Robert sat down, and actually wept with vexation. Every thing was
spoiled by the unfeeling conduct on the part of Trip. There was not
even enough for his supper left, though his hunger made him partake of
some of the cleanest of the mess.

The sun set, and the darkness gathered around him. He now crawled into
his new house, and rolled himself up in his blanket; but it was very
gloomy, and he was cold and tired. How different from his father’s
kitchen!

Robert began to think what a fool he was, and wished himself at home
with all his heart. He wondered what his sister thought had become of
him. Of course she had missed him before this time, and very likely she
was then searching for him in the village. Perhaps the people would
make just such a fuss as they did when Frank Lee was lost.

He had not thought of this before, and he felt sorry that he had caused
his sister so much pain and anxiety as his absence would occasion.

As he shivered with cold, he came to the conclusion that it was not so
pleasant, after all, to be a Robinson Crusoe. The book was all very
well as a story, but it was not the life he cared to live.

He was so cold, he could not go to sleep. I suppose some of the boys
who read this will ask why he did not make a fire. There was a very
good reason. He had put a bunch of matches into his pocket in the
morning, but when he fell into the water they had been completely
soaked, and not one of them would “go.”

Hour after hour he lay there, shivering and weeping, till at last he
fell asleep, so worn out that he could endure no more. Do you suppose
he dreamed of Crusoe in his cave, with his dog and his parrot?

It is more likely that he dreamed of his warm bed at home; of hot
biscuit and new milk, of apple pie and doughnuts. But after he had
slept an hour or two, he was awakened by loud calls on the pond.

He was terrified by the sounds, and perhaps thought, at first, that the
savages were coming to have a feast on the island; but I am sure he had
no wish to procure a Man Friday from their number.

The noise was made by a party who were searching for the young Crusoe.
For several hours the fears of his sister had filled her with agony.
Some one told her that her brother had been making a raft, and she
called upon the neighbors to explore the river.

She feared that he had been drowned, for no one thought of such a thing
as that he had turned Crusoe. It was possible he had gone ashore, and
got lost; so the people took boats and went down the river, searching
closely on their way.

They were looking for the raft, and had been down to the dam below
without finding it. On their way down they had shouted all the time;
but Robert slept so soundly that he did not hear them.

On their return they went nearer to the island, and their cries had
roused him from his uneasy slumber. Robert heard them call his name,
and his fears vanished.

“Halloo!” he shouted in reply.

“Where are you?” asked one of the men in the boat.

“On the island.”

In a moment more, the boat touched the shore, where Robinson Crusoe,
Jr., shivering with cold, was waiting for them.

“What in the world are you doing here? Where is your raft?” asked Mr.
Green, who was in the boat.

“I pulled it to pieces, for I meant to stay here and be a Robinson
Crusoe,” answered Robert.

The men laughed at the idea, and Robert began to cry again. Finding
that Crusoe felt badly, Mr. Green told the men not to laugh at him. So
they wrapped him up in his blankets, and taking the rest of his things
into the boat, they rowed back to Riverdale.

Robert’s sister was glad enough to see him, so she did not scold him
much; but for a long time afterwards the boys in the village called him
Robinson Crusoe, Jr.

He never wanted to live on a desolate island again, and said no more
about trying to catch a Man Friday. On the contrary, the adventure
caused him to love his parents and his home more than ever before.

[Illustration]




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

  Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.

  New original cover art included with this eBook is granted to the
    public domain.




        
            *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ROBINSON CRUSOE, JR ***
        

    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.



